This graphic attempts to visualise how the Eurozone crisis developed over time. Seven key indicators are shown. The outer radius of the ring shows the maximum within the Eurozone and the inner radius the minimum.

I selected the indicators according to what I, being no expert, considered to affect the crisis or show its effects. There are indicators that could have been added but were not because they did not demonstrate the effects of the crisis (such as external debt). There are also indicators that I would like to have added, but was unable to obtain sufficient data for (such as private debt).

The scales of the indicators are arranged such that up in the graph means good and down bad. The indicators are grouped such that the ones on the left affect the private sector and population more whereas the ones on the right affect the public sector and the government.

The indicators are as follows.
GDP growth - Increase in total economic output.
Surplus - Government surplus or deficit.
Interest - Interest rate payable on government 10 year bonds.
Debt - Total government debt.
Unemployment - Overall unemployment rate.
Inflation - Change in price levels.
Investments - Gross fixed capital formation.

Compared to 2006, the picture at the end of 2011 is different in two main ways. First, the ring has moved down by a lot, indicating that the overall state of the economy is worse. Second, the ring is much thicker, indicating that the discrepancies within the Eurozone are much higher. This is especially true for interest rates and unemployment. Inflation on the other hand is low and similar for all Eurozone countries. This shows the effect of the common currency and its centralised governance.

In my opinion, the unique point about this visualisation is that it shows a large amount of data in a way that does not require the reader to understand it in depth to understand the message. Down is bad, the ring moved down over time and became wider, demonstrating a larger disparity. On the other hand, the visualisation has enough depth to provide the interested reader with more information. Each individual indicator can be studied as well as its change over time.

The online version should work with any modern browser, but the "halo" effect used to make the numbers on the axes more readable only seems to display properly in Chromium/Chrome. I used d3.js for the graphics and JQuery UI for some of the interface components.

The data comes from the ECB, EuroStat, the IMF, the OECD and the World Bank. Some of the numbers for October 2011 are estimates provided by the IMF.
